there's nothing like a bowl of hot soup
to warm your soul hi I'm Karen Ahmed and
welcome to another episode of cravings
log today we're making my all-time
favorite soup hot and sour let's start
with the stop we're going to need 2
litres of stop now this can be your
homemade stock you can get it out of a
can or package or you can use these
little stock cubes I'm going to use the
stock cubes today and I've used 2 cubes
per liter I'm going to bring this to a
boil now if you're feeling a little bit
guilty because you haven't made your own
homemade stock don't worry just take all
off the leftover bits and pieces from
all the vegetables that you cut and just
throw it in the stock and let it simmer
let's talk about all of the ingredients
in the soup we have so many ingredients
and each one adds to the layers of
complexity of flavors in this soup I'm
going to start with minced ginger and
garlic now finely minced this as fine as
I could and I know you're looking at me
and saying you know what's the what's
the alternative there is none suck it up
cut up some fresh ginger and garlic you
can substitute the burst of flavor that
you're going to get into the soup
don't use bottled ginger and garlic it's
not going to work next I've also chopped
up some spring onions I've chopped up
about 12 bulbs and and then I'm going to
saute some ground chicken I've got about
half a pound of ground chicken and the
ground chicken is just going to soak up
all the flavors like a sponge next I'm
going to add about 5 tablespoons of
ground chili sauce or sambal Olek now
while this might seem a lot remember
we're using 2 litres of liquid so the
five chili spoons of chilli sauce isn't
going to be too spicy at all and I'm
also going to add a tablespoon of ground
pepper I've also got half a cup of fresh
mushrooms I've just chopped it up really
fine I'm going to give it a quick saute
then we're going to add the stock that's
been simmering back into the pot and I'm
going to follow it with some canned
shiitake or you can even
use the dried version just soak it up in
some hot water cut it up and add it to
the flavor these mushrooms given an
amazing flavor to the suits I'm going to
follow that with my secret ingredient
which is chopped up coriander stems not
the leaves the stems now while you're
thinking she's using stems most people
just throw these stems away but they
have got a ridiculous amount of flavor
in them now chop them up just like you
would chop up chives or any one of those
herbs and just chop it up really fine
and add it into your soup once all
that's in I'm going to add in some
julienne of carrots bamboo shoots and
some firm tofu that I cut up and I'm
going to flavor it with some dark soya
sauce rice wine vinegar and I'm going to
thicken it up just a little bit I've got
a slurry of cornstarch just about two
tablespoons of cornstarch I don't want
the soup to be really gloopy you see
sometimes in restaurants when you have
the soup overnight in your fridge and
you look at it the next morning just
looks like a big lump of gloop
I don't want that and then I'm going to
add in some egg and I'm just going to
use a fork and stir it around just so
you get this beautiful little egg ribbon
and finally at the end we're just going
to add in some fresh coriander leaves
that have been chopped up and some
spring onion leaves that I've reserved
and we're just going to add that in at
the end as a garnish so let's get
started let's saute four tablespoons of
minced ginger and garlic in a couple of
tablespoons of oil next let's add some
spring onions I have about 12 balls and
have only chopped up the white parts
I'm going to add half a pound of brown
chicken just break it up with the back
of your spoon and squish it down so
there's no lumps
once the chicken is cooked we're ready
to add the hot in hot and sour soup five
tablespoons of brown chili paste or
sambal oelek now like I mentioned before
this chicken is going to soak up all the
flavors just like a sponge we're also
going to add a tablespoon of black
ground pepper add half a cup of fresh
mushrooms and give it a quick saute and
we're ready to add the rest of the stock
I've got two liters of stock that's been
boiling away I'm ready to strain that
right into the mixture and once that's
done I'm going to take all the
additional vegetables and discard them
give the soup a really really good stir
and after that's done we're just going
to bring this to a boil once this comes
to a boil let's add about 300 ml of
canned shiitake mushrooms and then my
secret ingredient coriander stalks I've
got 2 tablespoons of finely chopped
coriander stalks this adds an amazing
flavor add 1 carrot that's cut in
julienne four tablespoons of canned
bamboo shoots that's also cut in
julienne and finally some tofu that's
cut in julienne as well give this a good
stir and then add in 3 tablespoons of
rice wine vinegar and 3 tablespoons of
dark soya sauce next we're going to add
a simple cornstarch slurry to thicken
the soup 2 tablespoons of cornstarch
just mixed in with some water just added
right into the soup and finally garnish
with a photo cup each of chopped
coriander and chopped spring onion
leaves
the hot and sour is ready I wish you
could smell this it smells absolutely
delicious and it's got layer upon layer
upon layer of delicious flavors now if
you want to make a vegetarian version of
this dish all you need to do is use
vegetable stock instead and don't use
any egg or chicken and you can achieve
the same kind of flavor thank you so
much for joining me see you next time on
cravings blogs and please subscribe to
my channel I'm always trying out new
recipes please share it with your
friends like it comment let me know what
you're looking for let me know what you
think of the videos thank you so much
take care until next time bye
me too
me